📝 Enhance documentation for Liam ERD CLI (#497)
liam-hq/liam: frontend/apps/docs/content/docs/cli/index.mdx

title: Liam ERD CLI
---

## Quick Start

The fastest way to get started with Liam ERD is using the interactive setup command:

```package-install
npx @liam-hq/cli init
```

This command will guide you through the setup process with the following steps:

1. **Select Your Technology**
   - Choose from supported technologies:
     - PostgreSQL
     - Ruby on Rails (schema.rb)
     - Prisma (schema.prisma)
     - Others (see [Supported Formats](/docs/parser/supported-formats))

2. **Configure Input Source**
   - For PostgreSQL:
     - Specify dump file path
   - For Rails/Prisma:
     - Specify schema file path
   - For Others:
     - PostgreSQL dump file is supported

3. **GitHub Actions Setup (Optional)**
   - Option to generate workflow file
   - Automatically creates `.github/workflows/erd.yml`
   - Configures automated ERD generation

After setup completion, follow the provided next steps to:

1. Build your ERD using the generated command

> 2. Serve the generated files using a local HTTP server or your preferred hosting service

Reviewer: I didn't want to go into too much detail here because it is very hard to maintain. What do you think?

The following is an example of GraphQL Code Generator:

> ## Initialization Wizard
> 
> Once installed, GraphQL Code Generator CLI can help you configure your project based on some popular flows:
> 
> ```sh
> npx graphql-code-generator init
> ```
> 
> ```sh npm2yarn
> npm install # install the chosen packages
> ```
> 
> Question by question, it will guide you through the whole process of setting up a schema, selecting and installing plugins, picking a destination to where your files are generated, and a lot more.
> 

https://the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/docs/getting-started/installation#initialization-wizard

Author: You are right, I deleted it 9f5824bf0305c68ab60f1ddd44aa64ee79f8c3f4
because writing the details part would be hard to maintain 🏋️

```package-install
npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input <path|url> --format <format>
```

This command processes your schema file and generates interactive ERD visualization files in the `dist` directory.

Once the ERD is generated, you can view it by serving the files using a local HTTP server:

```package-install
npx http-server dist
```

The server will start and provide you with a local URL (typically http://localhost:8080) where you can view your ERD in a web browser.

You can use any hosting service of your choice to serve the generated files.

### Options

- `--input <path|url>`: Path to your schema file or URL
- `--format <format>`: Schema format specification
  - `postgresql`: For PostgreSQL dump files
  - `schemarb`: For Ruby on Rails schema.rb files
  - `prisma`: For Prisma schema files

### Supported Formats

1. **PostgreSQL**
   ```package-install
   npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input dump.sql --format postgresql
   ```

2. **Ruby on Rails**
   ```package-install
   npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input db/schema.rb --format schemarb
   ```

3. **Prisma**
   ```package-install
   npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input prisma/schema.prisma --format prisma

>    ```

Reviewer: I think the examples looked good to delete here, because there is only a difference in format.

Author: Alright, I've deleted 9f5824bf0305c68ab60f1ddd44aa64ee79f8c3f4

### From GitHub Public Repository

You can directly specify URLs to schema files stored in public GitHub repositories. Using raw URLs allows you to generate ERDs directly from remote schema files.

```package-install
npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input https://github.com/user/repo/blob/main/examples/schema.sql --format postgresql
```

```package-install
npx @liam-hq/cli erd build --input https://raw.githubusercontent.com/user/repo/main/examples/schema.sql --format postgresql
```

### Output

> The command generates ERD files in the `dist` directory of your current working directory. These files include:
> 
> - HTML visualization
> - Associated assets
> - Interactive diagram components

Reviewer: It may be clearer to users if you tell them that it is an SPA by Vite. How about the following?

```suggestion
The command generates a simple web application using [Vite](https://vite.dev/), which includes JavaScript, CSS, and HTML files, in the dist directory of your current working directory.
```

Author: It looks better 👍
9f5824bf0305c68ab60f1ddd44aa64ee79f8c3f4
